README.md, before:

# awesome-beet
A curated repo of awesome resources and projects in the beet ecosystem! While most awesome lists just has links for other resources, this repo will also serve to host it's own content for cool tips and tricks when navigating the world of [`beet`](https://github.com/mcbeet/beet), [`mecha`](https://github.com/mcbeet/mecha), and [`lectern`](https://github.com/mcbeet/lectern).

**Contributions are welcome and wanted. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info.**

# Table of Contents

- [Official Projects](#official)
- [Hosted Tips and Tricks](resources)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Projects/Examples](#projects)
- [Misc](#misc)


## Official

- [Beet](https://github.com/mcbeet/beet) - The minecraft development kit providing a seemless way to automate your dev environment. Powers the entire beet ecosystem.
- [Lectern](https://github.com/mcbeet/lectern) - Literate Minecraft data packs and resource packs. Allows you to create minecraft projects through the markdown format.
- [Mecha](https://github.com/mcbeet/mecha) - A powerful command library with the tools to extend the default command structure.
- [Bolt](https://github.com/mcbeet/mecha/tree/main/mecha/contrib/bolt) - A superpowered pythonic scripting language that compiles to mcfunction.


## Plugins

- [beet-ext](https://github.com/Arcensoth/beet-ext) - A variety of personal extensions and utilities for beet projects.
- [Allay](https://github.com/DoubleF3lix/Allay) - A portable text parser allowing you to write expressive text components in a simplified, human readable format. Includes a beet and lectern plugin for use with beet eco.
- [pigstep](https://github.com/vberlier/pigstep) - A beet plugin for importing Note Block Studio songs into Minecraft.
- [babelbox](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/babelbox) - Write your language files as .csv to easily generate your translations, usable as a beet plugin.
- [mc-anitexgen](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/mcanitexgen) - An animated texture generator for minecraft, usable as a beet plugin.


## Tools

- [Beet Semantic](https://github.com/TheNuclearNexus/BeetSemantics/) - A VSCode extension to semantically syntax highlight bolt-based scripting.
- [vscode-beet](https://github.com/mcbeet/vscode-beet) - Beet's VSCode extension.
- [cookiecutter-beet](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/cookiecutter-beet) - Easily start a new project with a template!


## Projects

- [fnf](https://github.com/vberlier/fnf) - Friday Night Funkin in Minecraft. Uses beet to interpret the game's source.
- [gists/dist](https://github.com/rx-modules/gists/tree/main/dist) - A guide on calculating distances with vectors using lectern.
- [raycast-generator](https://help.sourceblock.net/beta/tools/data-packs/raycasting-generator) - A raycast datapack generator which produced in various formats (such as lectern).
- [PlayerDB](https://github.com/rx-modules/PlayerDB) - A Player Data Manager written using beet and lectern (and soon bolt).
- [VVVVVV](https://github.com/Bentroen/VVVVVV-in-Minecraft) - A 1:1 recreation of VVVVVV in minecraft. Uses beet to interpet the game's source.
- [Smithed Libraries](https://github.com/Smithed-MC/Libraries) - A minecraft all-in-one experience platform. Uses beet and bolt for build process for libraries.
- [Hats](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/Hats) - +1 for adding hats. Uses beet!
- [wind-shader](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/mc-wind-shader/) - A vanilla-based wind shader, built with beet.

## Misc

- [nbtlib](https://github.com/vberlier/nbtlib) - Read, edit, and parse nbt and snbt in python.
- [pytest-insta](https://github.com/vberlier/pytest-insta) - An extension to pytest which allows you to snapshot test. Helpful when testing compiled datapacks.

Commit message:

new: @Misode gaia-beet, @rx-modules and @TheWii bolt-expressions

README.md, after:

# awesome-beet
A curated repo of awesome resources and projects in the beet ecosystem! While most awesome lists just has links for other resources, this repo will also serve to host it's own content for cool tips and tricks when navigating the world of [`beet`](https://github.com/mcbeet/beet), [`mecha`](https://github.com/mcbeet/mecha), and [`lectern`](https://github.com/mcbeet/lectern).

**Contributions are welcome and wanted. See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more info.**

# Table of Contents

- [Official Projects](#official)
- [Hosted Tips and Tricks](resources)
- [Plugins](#plugins)
- [Tools](#tools)
- [Projects/Examples](#projects)
- [Misc](#misc)


## Official

- [Beet](https://github.com/mcbeet/beet) - The minecraft development kit providing a seemless way to automate your dev environment. Powers the entire beet ecosystem.
- [Lectern](https://github.com/mcbeet/lectern) - Literate Minecraft data packs and resource packs. Allows you to create minecraft projects through the markdown format.
- [Mecha](https://github.com/mcbeet/mecha) - A powerful command library with the tools to extend the default command structure.
- [Bolt](https://github.com/mcbeet/mecha/tree/main/mecha/contrib/bolt) - A superpowered pythonic scripting language that compiles to mcfunction.


## Plugins

- [beet-ext](https://github.com/Arcensoth/beet-ext) - A variety of personal extensions and utilities for beet projects.
- [bolt-expressions](https://github.com/rx-modules/bolt-expressions) - A bolt plugin to help write mathematical and simplified expressions with a pandas-like syntax.
- [gaia-beet](https://github.com/misode/gaia-beet) - A beet plugin to generate Minecraft worldgen files.
- [Allay](https://github.com/DoubleF3lix/Allay) - A portable text parser allowing you to write expressive text components in a simplified, human readable format. Includes a beet and lectern plugin for use with beet eco.
- [pigstep](https://github.com/vberlier/pigstep) - A beet plugin for importing Note Block Studio songs into Minecraft.
- [babelbox](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/babelbox) - Write your language files as .csv to easily generate your translations, usable as a beet plugin.
- [mc-anitexgen](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/mcanitexgen) - An animated texture generator for minecraft, usable as a beet plugin.


## Tools

- [Beet Semantic](https://github.com/TheNuclearNexus/BeetSemantics/) - A VSCode extension to semantically syntax highlight bolt-based scripting.
- [vscode-beet](https://github.com/mcbeet/vscode-beet) - Beet's VSCode extension.
- [cookiecutter-beet](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/cookiecutter-beet) - Easily start a new project with a template!


## Projects

- [fnf](https://github.com/vberlier/fnf) - Friday Night Funkin in Minecraft. Uses beet to interpret the game's source.
- [gists/dist](https://github.com/rx-modules/gists/tree/main/dist) - A guide on calculating distances with vectors using lectern.
- [raycast-generator](https://help.sourceblock.net/beta/tools/data-packs/raycasting-generator) - A raycast datapack generator which produced in various formats (such as lectern).
- [PlayerDB](https://github.com/rx-modules/PlayerDB) - A Player Data Manager written using beet and lectern (and soon bolt).
- [VVVVVV](https://github.com/Bentroen/VVVVVV-in-Minecraft) - A 1:1 recreation of VVVVVV in minecraft. Uses beet to interpet the game's source.
- [Smithed Libraries](https://github.com/Smithed-MC/Libraries) - A minecraft all-in-one experience platform. Uses beet and bolt for build process for libraries.
- [Hats](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/Hats) - +1 for adding hats. Uses beet!
- [wind-shader](https://github.com/OrangeUtan/mc-wind-shader/) - A vanilla-based wind shader, built with beet.

## Misc

- [nbtlib](https://github.com/vberlier/nbtlib) - Read, edit, and parse nbt and snbt in python.
- [pytest-insta](https://github.com/vberlier/pytest-insta) - An extension to pytest which allows you to snapshot test. Helpful when testing compiled datapacks.
